DNS Zone Transfers
A zone transfer is basically a database
replication between related DNS servers
in which the zone file is copied from
a master DNS server to a slave server.
The zone file contains a list of all
the DNS names configured for that zone.
Zone transfers should only be allowed
to authorized slave DNS servers
but many administrators
misconfigure their DNS servers,
and in these cases, anyone asking
for a copy of the DNS server’s zone
will usually receive one.
This is equivalent to handing a
hacker the corporate network layout
on a silver platter.
All the names, addresses,
and functionality of the servers
can be exposed to prying eyes.
A successful zone transfer does not
directly result in a network breach,
although it does facilitate the process.
The host command can be used
to perform a zone transfer
with the -l option
followed by the domain name
and a DNS server.
Let’s begin by finding the
DNS servers for megacorpone.com.
The domain has three DNS servers:
ns1, ns2, and ns3.
Let’s try a zone transfer
against each one.
We’ll use host -l to attempt
the zone transfers:
Unfortunately, it looks like
the first nameserver, ns1,
does not allow DNS zone transfers,
so our attempt has failed.
Let’s try to perform the same steps using
the second nameserver, ns2:
This server allows zone transfers
and provides a full dump of the zone file
for the megacorpone.com domain.
It delivers a convenient list
of IP addresses
and corresponding DNS hostnames!
The megacorpone.com domain has
very few DNS servers to check.
However, some larger organizations
might host many DNS servers,
or we might want to attempt
\zone transfer requests
against all the DNS servers
in a given domain.
Bash scripting can help with this task.
To attempt a zone transfer
with the host command,
we need two parameters:
a nameserver address and a domain name.
We can get a clean list of the nameservers
for a given domain with the host command,
piping the results into cut.
Taking this a step further,
we can write a Bash script
to automate the process of identifying
the relevant nameservers
and attempting a zone transfer from each:
Our script will identify the nameservers
for the given domain…
…and attempt a zone transfer against
each one of them.
Let’s make the script executable and run
it against megacorpone.com.
Great.
Just a few lines in a script has automated
our task quite nicely.